Our Mission

Our mission is to provide students seeking an education in software development with the technical and soft skills they need to pursue rewarding careers as programmers. We also seek to promote a sense of community among local technology organizations and their members, supporting our members in a way that strengthens our community and promotes the common good.

Our Team

Jason L Perry, Chief Executive Officer

Jason is a native Floridian who started building for the web as a teen in the mid-'90s, so he's been a web developer for about as long as anybody. Co-founding the Tampa Ruby Brigade in 2006, Suncoast Developers Guild in 2015, Jason takes pride in being a leader in the local tech community. After stints in academia, startups, and as a consulting freelancer, he's found great joy in mentoring and sharing the knowledge gained along the way. He's also a game development enthusiast, passionate about cryptocurrency, and loves animation. Jason is a father, a skeptic, entirely too opinionated, and prefers a word count in powers of two. When the world gets heavy you can find him either unbuilding LEGO® as catharsis or harnessing his power animal -- the panda.

Toni Warren, President

Toni was born in South Carolina, raised in Virginia, and lives in Florida, where she learned to love the southeast, sunny weather, and Chihuahuas. After receiving her MBA at the University of Tampa, she began to share the impact of how technology can help nonprofit organizations touch more people. As former Campus Director of The Iron Yard, she understands the needs for talented developers. Her passion is people and believes technology can help people achieve better results, quicker. She is excited about the warm welcome from St. Petersburg/Tampa and looks forward to collaborating with the community to develop amazing developers who want to make awesome things.

Gavin Stark, Chief Technology Officer

Gavin is a native of Florida and currently resides in St. Petersburg. Fearful he would someday melt under the Florida sun, Gavin took a break from the Sunshine State and studied mathematics and computer science in Rochester, New York and Management Information Systems in Tucson, Arizona. Gavin has been writing software since programs were saved on tape and source code was printed in magazines. When not programming, he can be found wondering if he will ever finish book four of the 'A Song of Fire and Ice' series, promoting a future of electric cars, convincing his girlfriend that PopTarts™ should go in the shopping cart since they are healthy because they contain seven minerals, and recently trying his hand at improv comedy.

Holly Valenty, Program Director

Holly is born and raised in St. Petersburg, Florida. She is a graduate of the University of Florida, where she studied Family, Youth, and Community Science and became an avid Gator football fan. After completing her degree, Holly worked within Marketing and the Tech industry. She found what she loved most was connecting people to their passions, and exploring new ways to improve the world around us. Holly is passionate about helping students change their lives through a new career. When not working with students, Holly can be found cuddling her dog, Lola, learning to code, or exploring new restaurants.

Mark Dewey, Core Instructor

Mark has seen success in both the government and commercial arenas of software engineering. Graduating from University of Pitt at Johnstown with a BS in Computer Science, Mark has fostered a love of being a lifelong learner. Through his journey of building a wide variety of software, Mark has found a passion for revolutionizing industries and a drive to improve people’s lives through new technology and paradigms. When not trying to change the world, Mark can be found outside enjoying the sun in his hammock, learning a new hobby or redesigning a bad user experience. Over the years, Mark has developed a passion for mentoring young and ambitious talent, and wants to bring developer training to the next level.

Our Facility

Suncoast Developers Guild operates from downtown St. Petersburg’s thriving business and innovation district, with easy access to beautiful waterfront parks, restaurants, craft breweries and entertainment.

The facility has all necessary equipment to offer an excellent learning experience, including but not limited to: desks, chairs, projectors, a/v system, high-speed Internet access, whiteboards and a reading library.

The facility includes a classroom to accommodate 30 students, in addition to common areas for social gatherings and breakout sessions.

Suncoast Developers Guild
100 7th St S
St. Petersburg, FL 33701

(727) 201-2012

Business Hours

Monday -- Thursday
9am -- 5pm
Friday
9am -- 3pm

Observed Holidays

Suncoast Developers Guild observes the following holidays. The facility will be closed and classes will not meet on the these days:

New Year's Day
Martin Luther King's Birthday
President's Day
Easter Monday
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Halloween
Veteran's Day
Thanksgiving Day (and following Friday)
Christmas Eve
Christmas Day

If you observe holidays not listed here and have concerns about how they might impact your experience, please contact us.

Curriculum

Program Description

This course of instruction prepares individuals for entry-level jobs as front-end or back-end engineers, and web developers. Graduates will be able find employment with companies who build and maintain their own websites and web applications (i.e. product work), or with agencies that produce websites and web applications for other companies (i.e. client work).

Students will learn client-side (front-end) technology: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript as well as server-side (back-end) technology such as .NET. At the end of the course, students will be able to create beautiful, fully functional websites backed by databases and server-side applications.

Definition of Clock Hours

Clock Hours are defined as not less than 50 minutes of: class, lecture, or instructor-supervised laboratory time. The breakdown of clock hours for full program is as follows:

180 Theory Hours + 216 Lab Hours = 396 Total Clock Hours

Transfer of Academic Credit

We do not accept any transfer credits or clock hours and we cannot offer any academic credit when you complete the program. Transfer of clock hours earned at Suncoast Developers Guild is at the discretion of the accepting institution.

Fundamentals

The first unit of the program will cover fundamental skills for software developers. Students will get to know their development environment and tools while diving into the core web technologies: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

Example topics for Fundamentals

Background and Basics

Setting up a development environment
Getting comfortable with the text editor
Version Control & Git
Web basics: HTML & CSS
How does the internet work? - DNS, HTTP/HTTPS, browsers, etc.

Programming Fundamentals

Syntax
Methods and functions
Control structures

Paradigms

Objects, constructors, and object-oriented programming
Anonymous functions
Scope, closures, and this
Asynchronous programming; callbacks and promises

Front-end Frameworks

Going into the second unit, students will get hands-on experience with the latest best practices for modern JavaScript development. Students will learn about building complex interactive applications with React, a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces.

Example topics for Front-end Frameworks

Modern JavaScript tooling

webpack
ES2015+, transpiling, modules
Deploying

React

Component driven design
Routing
Managing complex state

Intermediate Web Concepts

Using data (via JSON)
Intermediate CSS
APIs, AJAX, and REST

Back-end Frameworks

In the final unit, students will round out their full-stack toolkit with a exploration of the server-side technologies that power applications on the web and mobile devices. Students will be able to choose a focus, such as: Ruby on Rails (and the Ruby programming language) or .NET (and the C# programming language).

Example topics for Back-end Frameworks

Working with servers

Responding to requests
REST + APIs
Templating Engines
Deploying
Model-View-Controller

Working with data

Database Basics
SQL
Migrations
Object Relational Mapping

Classwork and Homework

Daily Content

Reading and video content relating information about an idea. Daily Content is given before each class day. It's released by the end of lunch on the previous class day, i.e. Monday's content will be released Friday afternoon. Content will consist of a variety of mediums and sources.

Lab Activity

Ungraded practice implementing a partially complete idea. It should closely follow examples in the daily content. The student is given most of the idea, similar to filling in blanks. Lab Activities are given during class Monday through Thursday, and are completed the same day.

Assignments

Graded, small projects implementing a whole idea it should require an abstraction of the idea presented earlier, as well as integrated with previously covered concepts. The student is usually given some boilerplate to start the assignment. Assignments are given Monday through Wednesday in the afternoon, and due the following morning, before class.

Projects

Graded, mid-sized multi-day (weekend) assignments that build on ideas presented during the week. Usually built from scratch, but may span building and expanding the same application over multiple weeks. A Project is given on Thursday afternoon, and due the following Monday, before class.

Capstone Project

A large project that represents the culmination of a student's learning in the program. The project is started 4-6 weeks into the curriculum and is due before graduation at the end of the program. The student will have regular milestone checkins with the instructors to receive guidance on the project. The project's content, design, and scope is determined by the student, subject to instructor approval.

Graded work, typically, is comprised of three modes. Students must complete Explorer mode while Adventure and Epic modes provide students additional practice and learning opportunities.

Explorer Model

A focus on exploring the core concepts, as presented in the content and lectures.

Adventure Model

A deeper dive into ideas not necessarily covered in class and will usually require research and investigation.

Epic Model

Requires the student to tie abstract ideas together and bring professional levels of polish and effort to the assignment or project.

Career Support is a mandatory part of the curriculum.

Daily Schedule

         Monday -- Thursday     Friday
09:00 AM Instructor's Hours     Career Support Lab
10:00 AM Class                  Career Support Lecture
11:00 AM                        Weekly Review (or extended Career Support)
12:00 PM Lunch                  Lunch
01:00 PM Lab                    Lab
02:00 PM Review at Two          Huddles
03:00 PM Lab                    End of Day / Optional Social Time
04:00 PM
05:00 PM End of Day

The day for students begins at 10am with two hours of class time (lecture, activities, etc.). After lunch is an hour of lab time where students will begin work on the day's assignment. At 2pm class will reconvene for an hour to reinforce the days concepts and answer questions that may arise while working on the assignment. Following the review, lab hours continue for the rest of the afternoon.

The day for instructors begins at 9am. While the instructors may be available to answer questions, this time is typically reserved for planning the day's lecture and activities, and grading assignments. Instructors will be available for answering questions and one-on-one mentoring during lab hours. Students can use this time to do warmup exercises and review daily content.

Fridays are similar in structure and schedule to the rest of the week, but class hour content will be different (e.g. Career Support, guest speakers). Fridays end early with optional off-campus social time.

Application Process

Admissions to the Suncoast Developers Guild's Web Development program is done through our website (suncoast.io). To apply, prospective students will complete and submit the application online. Questions answered in the application will assist faculty and staff in considering candidates. Technology-oriented interests and career goals, motivation, problem solving skills, and creativity will be primary indicators when evaluating an applicant’s potential. Previous work and educational experience will also be considered. Students must be at least 18 years of age and hold a high school diploma or equivalent.

Applicants will be invited to a series of interviews with a combination of: the Program Director, instructors, and alumni of the program. If a consensus is found that the applicant is a good fit for the program, the student will be notified of acceptance.

Program Costs

Tuition

Tuition is a flat fee of $14,900 for the entire three-month program.

[NOTE]

The tuition does not include any costs associated with parking, meals, or any other
fees not specifically provided for in this catalog or the enrollment agreement.

The tuition does not include any costs that may be required for, or associated with, the purchase of a laptop computer.

Payment

After being accepted in to the program, you can reserve a seat in our course with a deposit of $1,000. The entire amount of the deposit will be applied to your tuition balance, and the remaining funds will be due before the first day of class. Payment can be made by check, money order, debit, or credit card.

Financial Aid

Suncoast Developers Guild does not current participate in any Federal Guarantee Student Loads or Pell Grant programs.

Scholarships

Suncoast Developers Guild does not currently offer a scholarship program.

Hardware Requirements

The suggested computer for students is an Apple MacBook Pro laptop less than two years old.

Minimum requirements:

8GB of RAM
500GB HDD
macOS High Sierra (10.13) or Windows 10, subject to approval (see below)

Why a Mac? All of our students being on the same platform enables us to move at a much quicker pace. Processes like setting up new tools experience reduced friction because the same workflows apply to everyone.

Additionally, The open source and web development communities are invested in tools and libraries that work best with POSIX based operating systems like UNIX, Linux, and Apple's macOS (BSD Unix). In short, we believe using the macOS best prepares our students to work in the web development industry.

Students who choose to study .NET development with us may also find substantial benefit from using macOS. A PC laptops can be approved for class use on a case by case basis during the interview process.

Software Requirements

The tools and materials used in our program are open source and free.

Evaluation

Suncoast Developers Guild uses pass or fail grading system for Assignments and Projects. Completion of the program is depends on a demonstrated proficiency of the curriculum as determined by your instructor.

Instructors evaluate student performance with the Program Director on a bi-weekly basis. If the evaluation shows that a student is not performing well, instructors and the Program Director may meet with the student to discuss their progress, and determine steps to improve performance.

If instructors and the Program Director must have more than two (2) meetings with a student regarding poor performance, that student may be asked to leave the current program.

If you disagree with any evaluation, you may contact your instructor, the Program Director, or file a complaint following procedures outlined under the section titled "Complaints."

NOTE: You may not re-enroll in the same program semester if you dropout, or are asked to leave. You must apply for a new program, and follow the same entrance requirements as if you are a new student.

Absences and Tardies

If you are determined to have two (2) tardies in one (1) week, it will be counted as an absence.
If you miss more than six (6) lectures, or tally more than six (6) absences, you may not be eligible for Career Support services, at the discretion of the Program Director.
If will be late to a lecture, give your instructor reasonable notice, by no later than 9:30 AM. If you are late to a lecture, and did not give your instructor notice, it will be at the instructor's discretion whether to count you as tardy.
You will not be allowed to make-up any of the missed attendance.

We understand that issues arise; life happens. Keeping communication open with faculty and staff will allow us to make appropriate adjustments needed to keep you on track.

Graduation Requirements

In order to graduate from the program and to receive a certificate, they must successfully complete the required number of scheduled clock hours as specified in the catalog and on the Student Enrollment Agreement, satisfactorily pass eighty percent of assignments and projects, and satisfy all financial obligations to the School.

Certificate of Completion

When you complete the program, and have satisfied all requirements, we will award you a Certificate of Completion.

Job Placement

Career Support services are including, but not limited to, the following:

Curriculum including lectures, mentoring, and coaching on interview techniques, decoding technical job descriptions, resume writing workshops, and portfolio building.
Hosted Demo Day events, inviting potential employers, advisory board members, and community leaders to showcase the skills and work done by recent graduates.
Host guest lectures from community leaders on topics that add to and enhance the core program content.
The school maintains a "reverse job board", used by local employers and hiring partners that lists graduates and alumni who are seeking employment.

Students are also encouraged to participate and attend developer dozens of community events hosted on campus and around town during their time in the program. Relationships formed at these events often lay the seeds for future employment opportunities.

IMPORTANT: While every effort is made by our team to prepare students for their first job as a junior web developer, and to connect them with employers and hiring partners through relationships our staff and faculty have built in the community, the institution does not guarantee employment.

Transcripts

Transcripts are available upon student request and are provided in electronic format (PDF). Transcripts may not be requested by anyone other than the student without prior written (email) authorization from the student.

NOTE: Only student in good financial standing with Suncoast Developers Guild will receive a copy of their transcript.

Code of Conduct

Suncoast Developers Guild is dedicated to providing a harassment-free educational experience for everyone, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, or religion.

The institution does not tolerate harassment in any form. Sexual language and imagery is not appropriate for any venue related to school-sponsored activity. A student violating these rules may be sanctioned or expelled at the discretion of the institution. Harassment includes, but is not limited to, offensive verbal comments related to gender, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion, sexual images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of lectures or other events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

NOTE: If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact a member of the faculty or staff immediately.

Students asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately. If a student engages in harassing behavior, the institution may take any action it deems appropriate, including warning the offender or expulsion from the school.

Cancellation and Refund Policy

The following refund policy will be followed if a student's enrollment in the program is terminated for any reason:

Cancellation or termination can be made in person, by email, or by certified mail.
Any collected funds will be returned if an applicant is not accepted to the program.
Students accepted to the program will be returned all funds if enrollment is cancelled within three (3) business days of signing the enrollment agreement.
In the event of cancellation after program attendance has begun, funds will be returned Pro Rata up to 40% of total program hours, based on the number of completed hours.
No funds will be returned after 40% completion of the program.
In calculating refunds, the last date of actual attendance is used to determine completed hours.
Any refunds due will be made within 30 days of
  receiving notice of cancellation from the student;
  or termination of the student by the school.

Complaints

Suncoast Developers Guild strives to offer the best experience we can to prepare you for a career in professional software development. You may bring any grievances verbally or in writing (via chat or email) to an instructor who will attempt to work with you to find a solution.

If resolution is not possible with your instructor please send an email detailing the situation to the Program Director. If escalation is necessary, the CEO and/or President will make the final decision on any potential resolution to your issue.

Students dissatisfied with our response to their complaint, or who are not able to file a complaint with the school can file a formal complaint with the Florida Commission for Independent Education:

Commission for Independent Education, Florida Department of Education
325 W. Gaines Street, Suite 1414
Tallahassee, FL. 32399-0400

E-mail: cieinfo@fldoe.org
Fax: (850) 245-3238

Notices

Suncoast Developers Guild, Inc. is a not-for-profit corporation registered with the State of Florida.

Jason L Perry, CEO +
Toni Warren, President

Licensed by the Commission for Independent Education, Florida Department of Education.

Additional information regarding this institution may be obtained by contacting the
Commission at 325 West Gaines St., Ste. 1414, Tallahassee, FL 32399-0400, toll-free
telephone number (888) 224-6684.

Suncoast Developers Guild, Inc. does not and shall not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, creed, age, disability, military or veteran's status, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, or gender expression, in any of its activities or operations. These activities include, but are not limited to: hiring and firing of staff, selection of volunteers and vendors, and provision of services, administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarships, and other programs. We are committed to providing an inclusive and welcoming environment for our staff, students, volunteers, and members.

Suncoast Developers Guild, Inc. is an equal opportunity employer. We will not discriminate and will take affirmative action measures to ensure against discrimination in employment, recruitment, advertisements for employment, compensation, termination, upgrading, promotions, and other conditions of employment against any employee or job applicant on the bases of race, color, national origin, religion, creed, age, disability, military or veteran's status, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, or gender expression.
